[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
[Applause]
Hello, OddLots listeners. You are
listening to another episode that was
recorded live in New York City at our
event on June 26th. This time it's with
the one and only Nim Nicholas Taleb,
distinguished scientist and adviser at
Universa Investments.
Yep. We talked to him about how to live
a good life in a time of immense
volatility. Take a listen. Nim, what's
your definition of a good life? What
should we be aiming for?
Uh
I mean the the a lot of people think
that we're programmed to be happy and
stuff like that. In fact, we're
programmed to feel useful.
That's a good life. Or I mean you don't
have to be martyr to feel useful. As a
matter of fact, martyrs go too far and
if you look at their death typically in
history, you realize they could have
waited a decade and the problem was
solved itself by self, right? So think
of all the wars and hey the Vietnam war
took care of the self or the so
whatever. So, so let's forget about
martyrdom except of course in narrow
cases where you save someone. So the
idea is to be useful to others
and then the idea is you know to share
your mistakes as you grow in age to
share your mistakes with society so they
can build on it. That's my idea of a
good life. For a lot of people, good
life is hydonic in the sense that they
have a chef flown in from Europe to eat
some complicated food uh that our friend
here, you know, just would not approve
eating, you know, not nonstakes and
complicated thing with long long names
and uh so that that's a hydonic approach
to things. Mine is you feel useful. So
whether you have a family and you're
providing for them or if for a lot of
people who don't have a family yet or
may not have a family because in the
past most people didn't have a family a
lot of people were orphans a lot of
people were uh had didn't had children
who didn't survive so the idea is to be
useful to the community in general
so we talked about this in the market
context at the very beginning but does
you know I feel this poll to basically
always look at my phone to monitor the
latest headlines. Sometimes I don't
think like I'm the best parent because
I'm looking at my phone when I should be
with my family as you mentioned.
How do we be useful?
Bombarded time we're just being
bombarded with events beyond our
control.
Okay. Yeah. But but you're we're better
off than we were today. Um 40 years 50
years ago before many were born perhaps
even you. Right.
Yeah.
So the you don't realize that we spend
about a century
in front of a TV set.
Oh that's right.
Or reading papers where you're on a
receiving end
but not providing anything in return. So
it was a centralized information uh era
that started you know uh with modernity
and and you realize you should see the
families eating their dinner in front of
the TV set. Basically you're receiving
information whereas organically in the
past the way we dealt with information
was by trading it. It's like Twitter.
You you you give information, you
receive information. So you go to the
barber, someone gives you information,
and then you go to buy fish, you give
the fish monger information, and then
rumors start going. So, and now we're
close to that period because you're not
just receiving stuff, you're also
tweeting, you know, so although your
spouse, I'm sure, tells you not to tweet
from home. That's wrong. That's correct.
That's correct. Okay. I guess
it's true. When we're trying to get
Joe's attention, we send a DM doesn't
respond to anything.
So, I'm sure he's tweeting. So you're
feeling you're not just receiving noise,
but you're creating.
So I'm contributing. I'm being useful by
contributing to the noise. Thank you.
Thank very validating.
Wait, but do you personally enjoy being
on Twitter? Because I read some of your
tweets and uh you know sometimes you
seem a little angry.
No. So just a little if I were tweeting
now in front of all of you.
Yeah.
The tweet would look angry but my face
I'm often giggling when I'm tweeting.
All right. I'm often giggling. So, the
idea is to separate your your uh public
persona from your private life.
By the way, before we forget, before you
leave tonight, someone DM'd me and said,
"Can you please ask Nim to unblock me on
Twitter? I get these all the time. It's
probably the most
remind me before you leave. It's a
seemed like a nice guy." And so,
they all say, "Oh, sorry. I had a drink
or I don't know."
Wait, we should actually because of
Bitcoin because I chain blocked. No,
when you have a smear campaign,
you chain block.
So the friends, if someone bullies you
or pro, you you block
their friends
as well. Making it was possible at a
time.
Wait, how many people here have been
personally blocked by Nim Taleb?
Not that many. Not that many. It's a
small number.
It's not because No, no, no. a random
room in New York.
I stopped I stopped a couple of years
ago from using the chain blocker.
Yeah.
One because it had a lot of type two
error that the you know the false
positives and uh the other reason is uh
because when Elon took Twitter he banned
these uh bots.
Yeah.
So so they can't operate anymore. You
got to do it manually.
Oh like the third party apps that you
Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. They could use to
block someone their friends the friends
of their friends. a friend and friends
of the friends and all of that to
yourself.
[Music]
Are you surprised that in a year of just
like unbelievable headlines seemingly
day after day multiple wars going on not
to mention the trade war and all of that
everything else Doge etc that the
markets are not
crazier than they are
let me compose a tweet that maybe I'll
post
is uh for Trump one okay Trump one was
taken uh literally by his enemies by his
uh and metaphorically by his friends.
Okay.
Trump too is taken metaphorically by his
enemies
and literally by his friends.
Explain.
So whatever he's saying now, he's pretty
much doing I did you believe that he was
going to start these tariffs. They make
no sense. I mean it make sense to get
elected in Pennsylvania, but but I mean
it's not a kind of thing you do really.
And and it turned out he he meant it. It
was not just, you know, uh,
a vague, uh, it's really an oral
metaphor. It was real. He wants tariffs.
So maybe he wants to destroy the
American economy. Maybe that's his wish.
And, uh, and you could probably put a
dent.
And yet, but it's not work where stock
market's at alltime high.
Sorry.
The stock market is
first of all, you have to separate the
health of American companies.
No, I get that. your the income of the
American who went to uh Stop and Shop or
what's this thing in your area? Not
Whole Foods. You know, you guys go to
Whole Food, but normal people go to
Costco, whatever. Then you look at your
bill, right? And and the bill went up
practically for everything and their
income did not. and tax breaks to come
are not going to help
those who don't shop at tofu because
it's the the
the poor people you don't pay taxes
anyway so so they're not going to get
break from that so the idea is there's a
lunacy in in these tariffs I can
understand that we need to protect
pharma
we have some strategic interest in this
okay you protect the industry you want
to make sure you don't depend on China
for other things but it it's a lunacy to
try to switch with 4% unemployment in
America
plus or minus
from high margin you guys are all hard
margin all right to low margin right
high margin audience
yeah we have a high margin audience to
low margin right occupations
right
so now we're going to make socks can you
imagine the high margin so making u
making films we're going to make socks
and and then also misperception of the
whole process of a lot of things in um
in in basic uh you know uh trade
accounting like uh they say oh they're
rip they're ripping us off I mean I'm a
dentist all right and I go buy my bread
it's ripping me off right I should make
my own bread and and then the president
probably the baker should be a dentist
so the the whole the whole idea is not
is it doesn't stand on and plus they
have You you know if someone is not very
intelligent or not very skilled and you
can detect that at at it's like
arbitragees. You guys are from financial
audience and we call that trading
against themselves. They do a series of
trades that end up being closing a loop
being circular but was a loss. All
right. They used to call that Texas
trades but I think that the state of
Texas has been uh unfairly you know
defamed. Yeah. Know Texas trades in
general. One of them is Texas Hedge,
right? So the So for example, they have
tariffs on components that you would use
to build a computer in your basement in
New York. Okay? But if you bought an
Apple product, then there's no tariff.
Although that's made in over everything
is made overseas, manufactured. Okay. So
this is an inconsistency.
So there are plenty like that.
Sure.
And there's also what's his name? Um the
secretary of treasury is like secretary
not treasury secretary of commerce
is yeah he he he definitely someone
should hire him for comedy because he
was saying first of all he wants he he
he he doesn't the inconsistency he
didn't realize he said oh we're going to
raise so much money from tariffs and and
and then when you ask him you mean that
the economy will not adapt to your
tariffs by by replacement he didn't
think about it and and and he wants us
to produce to pay tariffs on bananas
so we're gonna have substitutes or he he
spoke about wine he said oh people will
buy American wine but what happens if
French the price of French wine goes up
okay
there's something called substitution I
don't know if people do that in Europe
they teach high school economics I mean
for ch children where they teach
substitution right so it's elementary me
I mean I'm saying that he Trump should
have hired
If you if you could find people who have
some skills. All right.
I can't wait to develop my skills
growing my own bananas. Banana arti.
Sorry, I can't talk tonight. Okay. I was
going to ask, you always preach skin in
the game.
Um unlike us journalists.
So, I got to ask, you're still an
adviser to Universa. What's been going
on there? What are your returns like?
Give us all the numbers.
Okay. No, I so this is not the place to
discuss numbers.
Uh you won't get all right but you can
get a general approach and philosophy uh
that I have now to describe in in a in a
format compressed format of what we do
and how we do it. Um we can safely say
that as usual uh whatever we're doing
worked okay in a sense that the idea the
idea let me the idea the idea is that
you got to look at the return of that
hedge
you got to return the portfolio that was
hedged because sort of like when you
when you have an insurance on your house
all right you look at the package house
plus insurance you don't look at
insurance as a tradable think today I'm
not going to have insurance, tomorrow
I'll have or how is that paying off? You
look at the package. Okay, insurance
allows you to buy a bigger house
because you know your your total risk is
lower in the case of stuff like that.
So, it's the same situation and and the
stock market rallied
which which mean that not only did the
hedge
do okay, but it wasn't needed.
So, you're like making money on your
insurance. So netn net that story
continued and we've been doing it now
for uh
time flies. Uh we're in 2025
25 minus uh oh it's a lot right so we've
done it for 18 years
18 19 years directly was universal and
then before of course an iteration
before and it is that it's the same
story we didn't change strategy for a
second and uh we will not change
strategy so basically that's what we do
is the same thing it's just it's getting
bigger that's it
well wait there are a lot more
volatility events nowadays. Do you not
adapt to that at all or take that? Well,
let me tell you if you look net net
first of all I don't look at volatility
as volatility
okay
in in my technical work and universal
doesn't look at vol you look at
for example you can have a tail event
and then you can have or you can have
regular volatility so a lot of people
are overall by regular volatility and
typically what they call regular
volatility I learned the linguistics of
of that business is when the market goes
down they don't in the old days when
they're losing money they would Okay.
All the markets are volatile. Volatile
doesn't mean it's going up. Volatile is
not an absolute uh mean deviation.
Volatile is negative return. All right.
So, so a lot of perception of things of
volatility by exact. I mean your
profession journalist is of course very
important that way you can reveal
uh uh bad stuff when it's made and
things like that. But but often
did Nim just say something nice about
journalism?
Yeah. Yeah. No, no, there are a lot of
things. It's an important mission. uh
but but but very often uh there's the
scaling doesn't uh doesn't quite match
like for example people in journalism
and this I wrote about in fooled by
randomness
you should have newspapers or they say
length of newspapers now we don't have
newspaper but you understand what I mean
there should be on days like the stock
market crash or on last couple of weeks
newspapers should be that big and the
rest of the time should be half a page
but they have the same length
All right. So that's the scaling problem
in journalism. In other words, you have
the news 14 and a half minutes plus, you
know, of course the Bloomberg uh ad in
the middle. So so the I mean that that
news bulletin should be variable with
with with with the events. You see the
idea? So same thing with market
movement. So I don't think that we are
experiencing real volatility
compared to what could have happened and
what we have seen with explosive uh
markets. Yes.
So, as mentioned,
multiple wars going on. Uh we had the
COVID shock, we had the inflation shock,
we have massive changes happening in the
political landscape including uh right
here in New York City. Is there an
underlying reason in your view why it
feels as though big things are
happening? No my whole point is that
what to go back to is go back to tail to
to what we call about fat tail. Fat
tales means the smallest number of event
explains the largest number of uh
deviations. For example, if you take a
thousand people and you have inequality,
one person will have most of the money.
Likewise, few historical days have most
of the information.
Mh.
Like likewise. So this is entirely
normal. The point is you can't you
couldn't predict ahead of time that
you're going to have when you're going
to have these days or you're going to
have the structure of it is though very
very uh uh stable. It is things follow
tend to follow a power law. So
go ahead.
Oh I'm going to ask a very basic
question that I'm sure you get asked all
the time but we are all nevertheless
very interested in your answer. Um, by
definition, black swans, I guess, are
unpredictable um, and impossible to
forecast. But what black swans do you
see on the horizon?
Okay, so this
let me rephrase. Let me rephrase it.
Okay, there's something called gray
swans. All right. So great pandemics
were gray swans or or you know gray
swans means events that have these
characteristics of very small number of
events determine
large part of the total effect like
small a small number of events uh small
number of wars that killed most of
people stuff like that pandemics. So
there's grace sworns and you can say
they have a structure. You predict them
ahead of time. You don't know. Okay. But
what we do is you can figure out if an
environment is fragile or not. And in a
fragile environments you can say okay
this is prone to break if there's a
shock. Like in 2007 we knew that banks
were fragile.
Why? They were net short volatility.
That's sort of my fragility work in
antifragile. To answer your question, I
wrote antifragile, which on its own
became a monster, right? But but the the
whole idea is to figure out what can be
uh have cascading effects from shocks.
Okay, as I wrote to the black swan, it's
foolish to say what color truck is going
to break a fragile bridge. Okay, but it
is not foolish to say this bridge is
fragile. It's going to break one day.
Don't cross it. Don't don't or or or or
or invite your enemies to you know
Okay. Okay. What what areas of fragility
do you see right now?
So the first one I'm learning.
Yeah. The fir Okay. So the first Yeah.
The the first one is we have a I don't
know if you're aware of it. Maybe people
aren't aware yet that I don't know if we
know we have a deficit.
Oh, I heard about this. And you know
that that you have to borrow,
you know, to pay for the interest rates
for the interest uh uh ex you know the
the uh
the the debt that you've had before.
And at four north of 4% interest rates,
four to 5% interest rate, this is
significant means you can have a
snowballing effect. You had to borrow
more and more and you know that they're
not fixing the budget problem except
verbally. Hey, we're going to fix the
budget. You know, it's all the same
story. Uh the structure of the political
system unfortunately is driving us
there. Okay. So, this is one source of
fragility, one main source of fragility.
Okay. That the political system is not
adapted to that kind of thing. So, what
happened in the western world, it's not
just a case of United States. It's a
case of the western world because you
got to look at it as I describe in
antifragiles. Think of an S-curve
like China can have rapid growth because
they're pulling people out of their
beautifully landscaped countryside to
pull them in apartment blocks that maybe
it's not pleasant for for the people,
you know, to to live in in boxes, but
that generates a huge amount of economic
growth. Okay. So, a lot of people going
up the so-called development scale.
You're you're on the convex part of the
S-curve. Okay. The west is on a concave
part of the escort.
So which means that
you have two car most except New York
New Yorkers live in small boxes like
like like uh poor people in middle ages
but outside New York City in a real most
people have two car garages stuff like
that. So you you you we can't you can't
grow right and you don't have poor
people so you have to import them from
El Salvador Panama a lot of people you
don't have poor people. So, so you don't
to create that kind of thing and and and
even and now you don't want them
anymore. You don't they don't want you
don't want everybody, you know. So, so
they have a problem that growth in
America is structurally
declining.
Yeah.
Well, at the same time, the debt burden
is structurally
increasing. You see that diversion and
that applies to the rest of the
developer because you develop, you're
arriving to destination. Why are you
still borrowing? The problem is most
countries tend to borrow when they're
already rich, when they don't need it
anymore. Just like people, see like
people on Wall Street. These people are
on Wall Street. They probably borrow a
lot now already rich. All right? Whereas
poor people don't borrow. So that's a
big problem. That's number one problem.
The second one is China is representing
a larger larger share of GDP of the
world. And so you're going to think that
geopolitics aren't going to be the same.
And you don't want to live, you know, in
the wrong century. Think you're living
in this century, think you're in a
different century.
All right, Nimb. Yeah. Thank you so
much.
Thanks. Thanks for eating cow meat
and thanks for the steak.
So, next time, let's make sure either
have organ food or bring wine.
We'll definitely have wine. Thank you so
much.
This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts Podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our
producers, Carmen Rodriguez at Kerman,
D-obenett,
and Kellbrooks at Kellbrooks. For more
OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes. And you can chat about
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we do these live recordings, then
please leave us a positive review on
your favorite podcast platform. Thanks
for listening.
[Music]
I know.